---
layout: page
author: Ted Brzinski
title: Honor Code 
permalink: /honor/
---

# The Honor Code and this course
 An important duty you have as a member of the Haverford community is to adhere to the spirit and letter of the Honor Code. Adhering to the code is a responsibility to your community and yourself. As a reminder, the Code's full text can be found at http://honorcouncil.haverford.edu/the-code/. 
A key responsibility defined in the Honor Code is that you produce your own best work and that you only claim credit for your own work. Presenting the work or ideas of another as your own is the definition of plagiarism and a grievous violation of the honor code and your trust with your instructors and fellow students. However, we encourage you to work in groups and take advantage of your classmates’ experiences and varied perspectives! The key is that any collaborative work you submit should acknowledge collaborators (always be citing!), and your contributions should be substantial. Simply copying a solution you write collaboratively on a chalkboard is a code violation, but learning from that collaborative work so you can reproduce the result on your own (while still acknowledging the insights and contributions of your classmates) is not. If you are unsure about a specific situation, please talk to us! We are here to help you learn, and navigating issues of authorship and participation are an important part of your learning experience. 
Besides your academic responsibilities, the Code requires ‘mutual trust, concern and respect’ for your fellow students. This extends to classroom etiquette. If, for any reason, the classroom does not feel inclusive and accessible, please bring the situation to our attention so it can be addressed. As we work together to create an effective learning environment, please be cognizant of whether you might be dominating or failing to participate in classroom discourse, and of what impact that may have on your classmates. Note when your classmates do something that enriches your experience and try to emulate or foster those contributions. (And it never hurts to point it out and celebrate when one of your classmates improves the class!) 
