---
title:  "Assignment #13"
layout: page
permalink: /assignments/wk13
---

This week: Fluids! Steady and ideal flows.

You may work together and get help from other students. Your solutions must be written in your own words, without looking at someone else's solutions while you write them.

Don't forget the criteria we are looking for in your solutions (see the Expectations page).

# Reading:
Chapters 12.1-12.5 of Lautraup  (https://tripod.haverford.edu/permalink/01TRI_INST/ndg42k/alma991019115797904921), notes due Thursday.

12.6 may also be of interest, especially for those of you interested in cosmology.

# Assignment:
## Tuesday:
1. A continuity problem to be presented in class (for in-class only, not written)

## Thursday: (I'm pushing the Bernoulli problems to next week:)
1. Lautrup 12.4 -- another continuity problem, but for flow!
2. A pipe reduces size by 50% at a conical constriction.  How does the flow rate change across the constriction?  How does the pressure change? In particular, on which side of the constriction is the pressure higher? Why? (This is a preview of Bernoulli's effect!)

~~1. *Bernoulli near your car:* You're driving in your car and trying out a new barometer. Most of the windows are closed, but one is open a little. There is no wind. You find that, when the car is moving at 105 km/h, the pressure inside drops by 667 Pa. Assume a density of air of 1.21 $$\mathrm{kg/m}^3$$.~~
     ~~- What is the speed of the air just outside the window relative to the car, expressed in km/h? (Hint: the correct answer is not 105 km/h.)~~
     ~~- Explain why this is so, qualitatively.~~
~~2. *Bernoulli near your faucet:* Water flows out of a kitchen faucet of 1.25 cm diameter at the rate 0.1 L/s. The bottom of the sink is 45 cm below the faucet outlet.~~
     ~~- Will the cross-sectional area of the fluid stream increase, decrease, or remain constant between the faucet outlet and the bottom of the sink? Explain qualitatively.~~
     ~~- Find the cross-sectional area of the stream as a function of distance y above the sink bottom, and plot it.~~
     ~~- If a plate is held directly under the faucet, find the force required to hold the plate in a horizontal position as a function of y and plot it.~~


# Independent Problems (Due Monday Dec. 9):
## R4:
Take or sketch a picture of an object you can see that is *not* axially symmetric (e.g. your phone, a guitar, a snack bar), and estimate the object's principal axes (share any assumptions you make). Note that you'll also need to estimate the origin of the body frame. 

## C6:
Describe what the motion would be if you spin the object about each of its principal axes. No need to solve for characteristic frequencies, just describe the motion qualitatively!

## R5:
Would the precession of a top on Mars be faster or slower than on Earth? Why? Explain your answer.
