---
title:  "Assignment #14"
layout: page
permalink: /assignments/wk14
---

Our last week! 

This week we'll talk about less ideal flows, and also introduce viscosity!

# Reading:
Chapter 13. 

If we can, on Thursday I will introduce some of the main concepts from Chapter 15. But you are not required to include chapter 15 in your notes!

# Assignment:
## Tuesday:
1. *Bernoulli near your car:* You're driving in your car and trying out a new barometer. Most of the windows are closed, but one is open a little. There is no wind. You find that, when the car is moving at 105 km/h, the pressure inside drops by 667 Pa. Assume a density of air of 1.21 $$\mathrm{kg/m}^3$$.
     - What is the speed of the air just outside the window relative to the car, expressed in km/h? (Hint: the correct answer is not 105 km/h.)
     - Explain why this is so, qualitatively.
2. *Bernoulli near your faucet:* Water flows out of a kitchen faucet of 1.25 cm diameter at the rate 0.1 L/s. The bottom of the sink is 45 cm below the faucet outlet.
     - Will the cross-sectional area of the fluid stream increase, decrease, or remain constant between the faucet outlet and the bottom of the sink? Explain qualitatively.
     - Find the cross-sectional area of the stream as a function of distance y above the sink bottom, and plot it.
     - If a plate is held directly under the faucet, find the force required to hold the plate in a horizontal position as a function of y and plot it.

## Thursday:
End of semester feedback!

# Independent Problems (Due Friday Dec. 13):
## Q5:
Find the effective potential of a mass $$m$$ subject to a central force $$F=-kr^3$$. What is the stable circular orbit of a mass in this potential?

## Q6 and R6:
Q6: A disk with a concentric hole (like an "Aerobie," if you'd like to google a picture) with outer radius $$r_o$$ and inner radius $$r_i$$ is thrown so it spins about the axis of axial symmetry at rate $$\omega_s$$. Assuming a uniform mass density and mass $$m$$, what is the frequency of the wobble of this object about the other two axes? 

R6: Is the wobble faster or slower than if there were no hole? Why might that be preferable for a thrown toy (equivalently, which object is "more" stable, and why?)
